Project Gutenberg's Catalogue of Works Literary Art and Music, by W. Reeves

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Catalogue of Works Literary Art and Music

Author: W. Reeves

Release Date: May 1, 2016 [EBook #51902]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ISO-8859-1

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CATALOGUE OF WORKS LITERARY ***




Produced by Judith Wirawan, deaurider and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive)









TRANSCRIBER NOTES


Words surrounded by / are italicized.

Words surrounded by = are bold.

Words surrounded by _ are underlined.

Small capitals are presented as all capitals in this e-text.

Inconsistent spelling and apparent printer errors have been retained
as printed in original book, except obvious punctuation errors have
been repaired.

Asterism (a symbol consisting of three asterisks arranged in a
triangle) is presented as *** in this e-text.




                   W. REEVES

                      AND

               REEVES & TURNER'S

                  Publications

       *       *       *       *       *

                   CATALOGUE

                    OF WORKS

                 Literary
                    Art and
                        Music.

                  ALSO ...
                  Books on ...
                  Freemasonry.

              [Illustration: Logo]

             London:
              83, Charing Cross Rd.
                              W.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO MEMORIZE MUSIC: With numerous Musical Examples. By C. F.
Kenyon, cr. 8vo, 1s.

       *       *       *       *       *

TREATISE ON THE TRAINING OF BOY'S VOICES: With Examples and Exercises
and Chapters on Choir-Organization. Compiled for the Use of
Choirmasters. By George T. Fleming, cr. 8vo, cloth, 2s.

       *       *       *       *       *

GRADUATED COURSE OF EXERCISES FOR BOY CHORISTERS: With Pianoforte
Accompaniment. For Use inconjunction with above. By G. T. Fleming, 1s.

       *       *       *       *       *

INTERLUDES. Seven Lectures by H. C. Banister. Collected and Edited by
Stewart Macpherson, with Portrait, cr. 8vo, cloth, 2s. (pub. at 5s.)

       *       *       *       *       *

                 ORGAN MUSIC.
    (All with ped. obb.) (Prices Music-net).

 Chopin's Nocturne (Op. 9, No. 2)    1s. 6d.   /E. H. Lemare/.
 Forward! Grand March                1s. 6d.   /E. H. Sugg/.
 Lebanon March (Smallwood)           2s.       /Dr. Westbrook/.
 Grand Festival March, "Illogan"     2s.       /H. C. Tonking/.
 (also arr. for Piano solo; and Vn. & Pi.)
 Overture to William Tell (Rossini)  2s. 6d.   /A. Whittingham/.
 Overture to Oberon (Weber)          2s.       /A. Whittingham/.
 Overture to Freischütz (Weber)      2s.       /A. Whittingham/.
 Six Pieces for Church Use (arr.)    1s.       /W. Smallwood/.

       *       *       *       *       *

          8vo cloth, 300 pp., 3s. 6d.

=HONE (William), Ancient Mysteries described=, especially the English
Miracle Plays founded on the Apocryphal New Testament Story, extant
among the unpublished MSS. in the British Museum, including notices of
Ecclesiastical Shows and Festivals of Fools and Asses, the English Boy
Bishop, Descent into Hell, the Lord Mayor's Show, the Guildhall
Giants, Christmas Carols, etc., with Engravings and Index.

       *       *       *       *       *

              8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d.

=HONE (William), The Apocryphal New Testament=, being all the Gospels,
Epistles and other pieces now extant attributed in the first four
centuries to Jesus Christ, his Apostles and their Companions and not
included in the New Testament by its compilers.

       *       *       *       *       *

        In 4 Volumes, 8vo. Price £2 2s.
  Handsomely bound in designed buckram cloth.

*** /_One Hundred Copies specially printed on hand-made paper supplied
By Spalding & Hodge. Price £4 4s. net, bound in Vellum._/


        Essays & Letters of MONTAIGNE.

       Edited by WILLIAM CAREW HAZLITT.
           _NEW AND ENLARGED INDEX_

AN ENTIRELY NEW EDITION formed from a Collation of the Foreign
Quotations; a fresh English rendering and a careful revision of the
text throughout. Some account of the Life of Montaigne, Notes to which
are added, a Translation of all the Letters known to be extant.


MR. HAZLITT'S MONTAIGNE,--An entirely new Edition text of Montaigne's
Essays and Letters (founded on the now extremely scarce one published
in 1877 in three volumes octavo) has now been brought to completion
(Publisher, Messrs. Reeves and Turner) and will, partly by reason of
enlarged introductory matter and partly by additional notes, extend to
four volumes. The Edition of 1877 was superintended by Mr. Hazlitt's
father, though bearing his own name on the title, and he merely
contributed the Preface. The book has now at length been adapted to
the last French /Variorum/ so far as possible, and innumerable errors
of the former English versions have been rectified. The Biographical
account of the essayist has been considerably amplified and =instead
of the sixteen Letters= given in 1877 =there are thirty-five=, many of
which are of interest and importance towards understanding the Life of
the Author. A salient feature in the present undertaking is to have
substituted for the English colloquial equivalents, or rather supposed
equivalents of the great Frenchman's language, the words which he
actually uses or the sense, which he actually intends to convey; and
the difference is often curious and sometimes immense between him and
his English renderers.--/The Athenæum./

       *       *       *       *       *

In the Press.


         Modern Orchestral Instruments

      Their Origin, Construction, and Use.

    /BEING A PRACTICAL ILLUSTRATED HANDBOOK/
                /For the use of/
             /AMATEURS OR STUDENTS./

With many additional Illustrations, Tables, an Appendix, and an
Explanatory Index.

                       BY
                K. SCHLESINGER.

       *       *       *       *       *


                Classical Works.

            Edited by Prof. Anthon.

ANTHON'S HORACE, Edited by Rev. James Boyd, LL.D., thick post 8vo, 5s.
6d.

ANTHON'S HOMER'S ILIAD, First Three Books, Edited by B. Davies, LL.D.,
thick post 8vo, 5s. 6d.

ANTHON'S CÆSAR'S COMMENTARIES, Edited by Rev. G. B. Wheeler, thick
post 8vo, 4s. 6d.

ANTHON'S ECLOGUES AND GEORGICS OF VIRGIL, with English Notes, Critical
and Explanatory, and a Metrical Index, post 8vo, price 4s. 6d.

ANTHON'S SALLUST, Edited by Rev. J. Boyd, LL.D., post 8vo, 4s. 6d.

ANTHON'S JUVENAL AND PERSIUS' SATIRES, Edited by J. T. Wheeler, post
8vo, 4s. 6d.

ANTHON'S CICERO'S ORATIONS, with English Commentary and Historical,
Geographical and Legal Indexes, Revised and Edited by Rev. G. B.
Wheeler, post 8vo, 4s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

    =Crown 8vo, Special Designed Cover. 5/-=


  MASTERSINGERS                        APPRECIATIONS OF MUSIC AND
                                       MUSICIANS WITH AN ESSAY ON
 By FILSON YOUNG                       HECTOR BERLIOZ....

CONTENTS.--The Pastoral Symphony--Tristan and Isolda--Bach's Organ
Fugues--Mozart's Requiem--Tschiakowsky's Sixth Symphony--The Composer
in England--Charles Hallé--Camille Saint-Saëns--An Irish
Musician--Hector Berlioz.

       *       *       *       *       *

/=Ready.=/                                =roy. 8vo, boards, 1/6=


            "THUS SPAKE ZARATHUSTRA"

   BY F. NIETZSCHE, /A BOOK FOR ALL AND NONE/.

TRANSLATED BY THOMAS COMMON, containing Zarathustra's Prefatory
Discourse, with Critical and Bibliographical Notices, Part I.

/"Nietzsche's Ethics, however are not the Ethics for boys, nor for old
women, nor for dreamers either; _they are the Ethics for full grown
men_, the noble, strong, wide-awake men, who shape the world's
destiny."/
                                                        --EDITOR.

       *       *       *       *       *

          =crown 8vo, Limp Cloth, 2/-=


             THE ART OF MODULATING.

/A SERIES OF PAPERS ON MODULATING AT THE PIANOFORTE. WITH 62 MUSICAL
EXAMPLES./ BY HENRY C. BANISTER.

/Not only at Examinations--viva voce--but in Actual Experience, is
ability required to pass rapidly, with very little "process" from one
key to another./

       *       *       *       *       *

/2nd Edition./               Thick Crown 8vo. Cloth, Price =7/6=.


           THE LIFE OF HENRY GEORGE.

       Author of "Progress and Poverty,"
 /With Portraits./                By his Son, HENRY GEORGE, JUN.

       *       *       *       *       *

         =Thick Crown 8vo., Cloth 10s.=
       /Important Critical Contribution./


         CHOPIN: THE MAN AND HIS MUSIC.

               BY JAMES HUNEKER,
    Author of "Mezzotints in Modern Music."

"Mr Huneker is a Chopin enthusiast. He accords admiration to Brahms,
to Wagner, to Tchaïkovsky: his worship is reserved for Chopin. Being
gifted with clear insight and imagination which grasp many and diverse
moods Mr. Huneker is a sane critic and a manly.... There is no
pretence at new material in the book. Mr. Huneker has garnered all
that has been written about the composer and he has threshed out the
grain from the chaff. The result is, therefore, of value."--/Musical
Standard./

       *       *       *       *       *

  THE LARGE EDITION, over 1,000 pp., imp. 8vo.

=CHAFFERS (Wm.), MARKS AND MONOGRAMS ON EUROPEAN AND ORIENTAL POTTERY
AND PORCELAIN=, with Historical Notices of each Manufactory, preceded
by an Introductory Essay on Ancient Pottery and on the Vasa Fictilia
of England and Mediæval Earthenware Vessels, with over 3,500 Potters
Marks and Illustrations, revised and edited by F. Litchfield,
ornamental cloth, Ninth Edition, with Additional Information and
Marks, 42s.

       *       *       *       *       *

/New Edition/ (1904.) Entirely Revised and Enlarged by C. A. MARKHAM,

=CHAFFERS (W.), HALL MARKS ON GOLD AND SILVER PLATE=, Illustrated with
Revised Tables of Annual Date Letters employed in the Assay Offices of
the United Kingdom, roy. 8vo, cloth, 16s. /net/.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COMPANION TO "HALL MARKS ON GOLD AND SILVER PLATE."

=CHAFFERS (W.), A HISTORY OF ENGLISH GOLDSMITHS AND PLATEWORKERS=
(Gilda Aurifa-brorum) and their Marks stamped on Plate, copied in
preserved at Goldsmiths' Hall, London, with their names, addresses and
dates of entry, 2,500 /Illustrations/; also Historical Account of the
Goldsmiths' Company and their Hall Marks and Regalia; the Mint;
Closing of the Exchequer; Goldsmith Bankers; Shop Signs, a Copious
Index, etc., a New Edition, 267 pp., roy. 8vo, cloth, 12s.

       *       *       *       *       *

=CHAFFERS (W.), COLLECTOR'S HANDBOOK OF MARKS AND MONOGRAMS ON POTTERY
AND PORCELAIN OF THE RENAISSANCE AND MODERN PERIOD=, selected from his
larger work, New Edition Revised and considerably Augmented by F.
Litchfield, Twelfth Thousand, 234 pp., post 8vo, cloth, gilt, 6s.

       *       *       *       *       *

=CHAFFERS (Wm.) HANDBOOK TO HALL MARKS ON GOLD AND SILVER PLATE=, with
Revised Tables of Annual Date Letters Employed in the Assay Offices of
England, Scotland and Ireland, Extended by C. A. Markham, /F.S.A./,
cr. 8vo, cloth, 5s. 1902

       *       *       *       *       *

=MARKHAM (Chr. A.=, /F.S.A./) =HANDBOOK TO FOREIGN HALL MARKS ON GOLD
AND SILVER PLATE= (except those on French Plate), containing 163
stamps, cr. 8vo, cloth, 5s.

       *       *       *       *       *

=MARKHAM (C.), HANDBOOK TO FRENCH HALL MARKS ON GOLD AND SILVER
PLATE.= Illustrated. Crown, 8vo, cloth, 5s. 1900

       *       *       *       *       *

=COBBETT (W.), RURAL RIDES= in the Counties of Surrey, Kent, Sussex,
Hants., Wilts., Gloucestershire, etc., edited with Life, New Notes,
and the addition of a copious Index, New Edition by PITT COBBETT, /map
and portrait/, 2 vols, cr. 8vo (xlviii. and 806 pp.), cloth gilt, 12s.
6d.

Cobbett's "Rural Rides" is to us a delightful book, but it is one
which few people know. We are not sure that up to the present time it
was impossible to get a nice edition of it. We are therefore glad to
see that Messrs. Reeves & Turner's recently published edition
is a very creditable production--two handy well-filled
volumes.--/Gardening./

       *       *       *       *       *

=KEATS= (John), =THE POETICAL WORKS OF JOHN KEATS= (large type), given
from his own Editions and other Authentic Sources, and collated with
many Manuscripts, edited by H. Buxton Forman, /portrait/, SEVENTH
EDITION, 8 pp., cr. 8vo, buckram, 7s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

=THE LETTERS OF JOHN KEATS= (Large type), Complete Revised Edition,
with a Portrait not published in previous Editions and 24 Contemporary
Views of Places visited by Keats, Edited by H. Duxton Forman, 519
pages, cr. 8vo. buckram. 8s.

       *       *       *       *       *

=LORD CHESTERFIELD'S LETTERS TO HIS SON.=--Edited with Occasional
Elucidatory Notes, Translations of all the Latin, French and Italian
Quotations, and a Biographical Notice of the Author. By Chas. Stokes
Carey, 2 vols, cr. 8vo, bevelled cloth, 10s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

=FLAGELLATION AND THE FLAGELLANTS=, A History of the Rod, in all
Countries by the Rev. W. M. Cooper. /Plates and Cuts/, thick cr. 8vo,
cloth, 7s. 6d. (pub. 12s. 6d.)

       *       *       *       *       *

=THE AWAKENING OF WOMEN=: or Woman's Part in Evolution, by Frances
Swiney, crown 8vo, cloth, 5s. /net/.

"Strong and soul-stirring.... The Book of the age on the woman
question."--/The Woman's Tribune./

It is most carefully thought out.... The authorities quoted all seem
to point to the fact that woman is more highly evolved than
man.--/Mrs. Ada Ballin, Editor of/ "WOMANHOOD."

       *       *       *       *       *

=SHELLEY'S PRINCIPLES= has time refuted or confirmed them, a
Retrospect and Forecast, by H. S. Salt, post 8vo, 1s.

       *       *       *       *       *

=PERCY BYSSHE SHELLEY=, Poet and Pioneer, a Biographical Study by H.
S. Salt, etched portrait, cr. 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

=SHELLEY LIBRARY (The)=, An Essay in Bibliography, by H. Buxton
Forman, Shelley's Books, Pamphlets and Broadsides, Posthumous Separate
Issues, and Posthumous Books, wholly or mainly by him, 127 pp., 8vo,
parts 1 and 2, wrappers, 3s. 6d. each.

       *       *       *       *       *

=A SHELLEY PRIMER=, By H. S. Salt, cr. 8vo, bds 2s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

=SHELLEY (Percy Bysshe), THE POETICAL WORKS= (in large type), given
from his own Editions and other Authentic Sources, collated with many
MSS., and with all Editions of Authority, together with his Prefaces
and Notes, his Poetical Translations and Fragments, and an Appendix of
Juvenalia, Edited by H. Buxton Forman, with the Notes of Mary
Wollstonecraft Shelley, /fine etched portrait/, 2 vols., cr. 8vo,
cloth (with Design in Gold on cover by Rossetti), 12s. /Fourth Edition
in the press/.

       *       *       *       *       *

=SIDONIA THE SORCERESS=, by William Meinhold. Translated by Lady
Wilde, with the Amber Witch, translated by Lady Duff Gordon, in 2
vols., crown 8vo, 8s. 6d. 1894

       *       *       *       *       *

=THOMSON (James, "B. V."), POETICAL WORKS=, The City of Dreadful
Night, Vane's Story, Weddah and Om-el-Bonain, Voice from the Hell, and
Poetical Remains, Edited by B. Dobell, with Memoir and Portrait, 2
vols, thick cr. 8vo, cloth, 12s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

=THOMSON (James, "B. V."), BIOGRAPHICAL AND CRITICAL STUDIES=, 483
pages, cr. 8vo, cloth. 6s.

       *       *       *       *       *

=LIFE OF DAVID GARRICK=, by J. Smyth, post 8vo, boards, 1s.

       *       *       *       *       *

=RUDIMENTS OF GREEK GRAMMAR=, by E. Wettenhall, D.D., translated by
Rev. G. N. Wright, numerous annotations and Questions for Examination,
by Rev. G. B. Wheeler, 3s.

       *       *       *       *       *

COMTE (Auguste), A Discourse on the Positive Spirit, Explanatory Notes
by E. S. Beesly, M.A., cr. 8vo. cloth, 2s. /net/.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUTSPOKEN ESSAYS ON SOCIAL SUBJECTS: By Ernest Belfort Bax, cr. 8vo,
cloth, 2s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

A CREED FOR CHRISTIAN SOCIALISTS, with Expositions by Charles William
Stubbs, D.D. (The Dean of Ely). Cr. 8vo, cloth, 2s. (paper, 1s.)

       *       *       *       *       *

COMTE (Auguste), General View of Positivism, translated by J. H.
Bridges. 2nd Edition, cr. 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SOCIAL ASPECTS OF CHRISTIANITY, and other Essays by Richard T.
Ely, Ph.D. Cr. 8vo, cloth, 2s. (paper, 1s.)

       *       *       *       *       *

PROGRESS AND POVERTY, by Henry George. Cloth, 1s. 6d., (paper, 1s.) or
Cabinet Edition, cloth, 2s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

KARL MARX'S THEORY OF VALUE (Complete), forming the First 9 Chapters
of "Capital." Cr. 8vo, cloth, 2s. (paper, 1s.)

       *       *       *       *       *

LOOKING BACKWARD, by Edward Bellamy, with copious Index and Portrait.
Limp cloth, 1s. 6d., Cabinet Edition, Steel Portrait, 2s. 6d. (also
cheap editions, paper covers, 6d. and 1s.)

       *       *       *       *       *

CO-OPERATIVE COMMONWEALTH: Exposition of Modern Socialism, by L.
Gronlund. English Edition. Third Edition. Edited by B. Shaw. Cr. 8vo,
cloth, 2s. (paper, 1s.)

       *       *       *       *       *

TENNYSON AS A THINKER, by Henry S. Salt, paper, 6d. (or large paper
copies, 1s. 6d.)

       *       *       *       *       *

PATRIOTISM AND CHRISTIANITY, by Count Leo Tolstoy. Cr. 8vo, cloth, 1s.
(paper, 6d.)

       *       *       *       *       *

LAWS OF ETERNAL LIFE: Being Studies in the Church Catechism by Rev.
Stewart D. Headlam. Cr. 8vo, cloth, 2s. (paper, 1s.)

       *       *       *       *       *

LONDON ROOKERIES AND COLLIER'S SLUMS.--A Plea for More Breathing Room.
By Robert Williams, A.R.I.B.A., with numerous Diagrams, sm. sewed, 1s.

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE LIGHT AND AIR FOR LONDONERS.--By Robert Williams, A.R.I.B.A.,
with numerous Diagrams, sm. 4to, sewed, 1s.

       *       *       *       *       *

RUSKIN'S NOTES OF THE PICTURES OF MR. HOLMAN HUNT, Exhibited at the
Rooms of the Fine Art Society, 1886, With Criticisms by John Ruskin
and other Comments, sewed, 8vo, 1s.

RUSKIN'S NOTES ON SOME OF THE PRINCIPAL PICTURES OF SIR JOHN EVERETT
MILLAIS, Exhibited at the Grosvenor Gallery, 1886, with a Preface and
Original and Selected Criticisms by John Ruskin and other Comments,
8vo, sewed, 1s.

WHAT IS PROPERTY? An Inquiry into the Principle of Right and of
Government, by P. J. PROUDHON, Translated by B. R. TUCKER, crown 8vo,
cloth, 3s. 6d.

DISCOURSES ON POSITIVE RELIGION: By J. H. Bridges, M.B., Second
Edition Revised and Enlarged, 8vo, boards, 1s.

RENT, INTEREST AND WAGES, or the Real Bearings of the Land Question.
By Michael Flürscheim. Third Edition, Revised, cr. 8vo, paper 1s.
(cloth 2s.)

       *       *       *       *       *


      HISTORICAL, BIOGRAPHICAL WORKS, ETC.

MUSICAL HISTORY AND BIOGRAPHY (Revised Edition to 1903). By F. J.
Crowest, post 8vo, sewed 1s. (cloth, 2s.)

MAKERS OF MUSIC, Biographical Sketches of the Great Composers, With
Chronological Summaries of their Works, and Facsimiles from Musical
MSS. of Bach, Handel, Purcell, Dr. Arne, Gluck, Haydn, Mozart,
Beethoven, Weber, Schubert, Berlioz, Mendelssohn, Chopin, Schumann,
Wagner, Verdi, Gounod, Brahms and Greig, with General Chronological
Table. By R. Farquharson Sharp, Portrait of Purcell, /Second Edition/,
cr. 8vo, cloth, 5s.

HOW TO MANAGE A CHORAL SOCIETY. By N. Kilburn, 2nd Edition, post 8vo.,
6d.

WAGNER'S PARSIFAL and the Bayreuth Fest-Spielhaus. By N. Kilburn, cr.
8vo., 6d.

WAGNER, A Sketch of his Life and Works, by N. Kilburn, 6d.

WOMAN AS A MUSICIAN, an art Historical Study by F. R. Ritter, 8vo.,
1s.

SIXTY YEARS OF MUSIC: A Record of the Art in England during the
Victorian Era, containing 70 Portrait of the most Eminent Musicians,
oblong quarto, boards, cloth back, 2s. 6d.

CHERUBINI, Memorials illustrative of his Life, by E. Bellasis, thick
cr. 8vo, cloth, 6s.

THE BACH LETTERS. Letters of Samuel Wesley, relating to the
Introduction into England of the Works of Bach. Ed. by E. Wesley. 2nd
Edition, 8vo, cl., 2s. 6d.

MEZZOTINTS IN MODERN MUSIC, Brahms, Tchaïkovsky, Chopin, Strauss,
Liszt, and Wagner, By Jas. Huneker, cr. 8vo, cloth, gilt top, 7s. 6d.

SKETCHES OF ENGLISH GLEE COMPOSERS, Historical, Biographical and
Critical (From about 1735-1866), by D. Baptie, post 8vo, cloth, 5s.

HISTORY OF HUNGARIAN MUSIC, by J. Kaldy (/Director of the Royal
Hungarian Opera/), cr. 8vo, bevelled cloth, 2s. 6d. /net/.

FRANZ LISZT, by T. Carlaw Martin, 6d.

HALF A CENTURY OF MUSIC IN ENGLAND, 1837-1887, By F. Hueffer, 8vo,
cloth, 3s. 6d. (pub. 8s. 6d.)

TEMPLETON AND MALIBRAN: Reminiscences of these Renowned Singers, with
Original Letters and Anecdotes, 3 Authentic Portraits by Mayall, 8vo,
cloth, 2s. 6d.

BALFE, His Life and Works, by W. A. Barrett, cr. 8vo, bevelled cloth,
3s. 6d. (pub. 7s. 6d.)

STATHAM (H. H.), Form and Design in Music, a Brief Outline of the
Æsthetic conditions of the Art, addressed to general Readers (in a
readable Literary form ... in everyday language), 8vo, cloth, 2s (pub.
5s.)

BEETHOVEN, by Richard Wagner, with a Supplement from the Philosophical
Works of Arthur Schopenhauer, trans. by Edward Dannreuther, 2nd Ed.,
cr. 8vo, cl., 6s.

CHOPIN, LIFE OF, by Franz Liszt, new and very much Enlarged Edition,
Englished in full now for the first time by John Broadhouse, cr. 8vo,
cloth, 6s.

WAGNER, Der Ring des Nibelungen, being the story concisely told of Das
Rhinegold, Die Walküre, Siegfried and Götterdämmerung, by N. Kilburn,
post 8vo, 9d.

BOX (C.), Church Music in the Metropolis, its Past and present
Condition, with Notes Critical and Explanatory, post 8vo, cloth, 3s.

THE PAST AND THE FUTURE, INAUGURAL LECTURE AT GRESHAM COLLEGE, Nov.
1890, by J. Frederick Bridge Mus. Doc., cr. 8vo, sewed, 6d.

ENGLISH HYMN TUNES from the 16th Century to the Present Time, by the
Rev. A. W. Malim, containing 21 Musical Illustrations, 8vo, sewed, 1s.

BEETHOVEN, Life of, by Louis Nohl, translated by John J. Lalor, 2nd
Edition, cr. 8vo, bevelled cloth, gilt edges, 3s. 6d.

ENGLISH GLEE AND MADRIGAL WRITERS, by W. A. Barrett, 8vo, cloth, 2s.
6d.

LIFE AND WORKS OF HANDEL. By A. Whittingham. 1s. (cloth, 1s. 6d.)

LIFE AND WORKS OF MOZART. By A. Whittingham. 1s. (cloth, 1s. 6d.)

BEETHOVEN DEPICTED BY HIS CONTEMPORARIES, by Ludwig Nohl, translated
by E. Hill, 2nd Edition, thick cr. 8vo, cloth, 7s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

                  EDUCATIONAL.

DICTIONARY OF MUSICIANS, (Cocks') New and Enlarged Edition brought
completely up to date, post 8vo, sewed, 1s., cloth, 1s. 6d.

MUSIC, A First Book for Beginners embodying the most recent English
and Continental Teaching by a Professor [Alfred Whittingham], post
8vo, 4d.

The two principal objects kept in view in writing this little book
were Thoroughness of Definition and Regular Order in the arrangement
of Subjects. =It differs from all other similar Works in that all the
Technical Terms in Music are introduced in the Answers not in the
Questions.=

COUNTERPOINT: A Simple and Intelligible Treatise, Containing the most
Important Rules of all Text Books, in Catechetical Form; (Forming an
Answer to the Question "What is Counterpoint?") Intended for
Beginners. By A. Livingstone Hirst, cr. 8vo, sewed, 9d.

DICTIONARY OF 2500 BRITISH MUSICIANS, from the Earliest Times, by F.
J. Crowest, cr. 8vo, stiff cover, 1s.

MANUAL OF MUSICAL HISTORY, from the Epoch of Ancient Greece to our
present time by Dr. F. L. Ritter, 2nd Edition, cr. 8vo, cl., 2s. 6d.

ON CONDUCTING, by Richard Wagner, translated by E. Dannreuther, Second
Edition, cr. 8vo, cloth, 5s.

=DUDLEY BUCK'S Complete Pronouncing Dictionary of Musical Terms. By
Dr. Dudley Buck.= /Third Edition with the Pronunciation of each Term
accurately given/, =cr. 8vo, paper cover 6d., (cloth 1s.)=

THE STUDENT'S HELMHOLTZ, Musical Acoustics or the Phenomena of Sound
as connected with Music, by John Broadhouse, with more than 100
Illustrations, 3rd Edition, cr. 8vo, cloth, 7s. 6d.

THE STUDENT'S HISTORY OF MUSIC. History of Music, from the Christian
Era to the present time by Dr. F. L. Ritter. 3rd Edition, thick cr.
8vo., cloth, 7s. 6d.

HARMONY AND THE CLASSIFICATION OF CHORDS, with Questions and
Exercises, by Dr. J. H. Lewis, Vol. 1, 8vo, boards, cloth back, 5s.

MUSICAL ANALYSIS. A Handbook for Students, with Musical Illustrations,
by H. C. Banister, crown 8vo, folio, cloth, 2s.

ELEMENTARY MUSIC. A book for Beginners, by Dr. Westbrook, with
Questions and Vocal Exercises, Thirteenth Edition, 1s., (cloth, 1s.
6d.)

PURITY IN MUSIC, by A. F. Thibaut. Translated by J. Broadhouse.
Schumann says: "A fine book about music, read it frequently." Crown
8vo., cloth, 2s. 6d.

EXERCISES ON GENERAL ELEMENTARY MUSIC. A Book for Beginners, by K.
Paige, 4th Edition, Part I. price 9d., Part II. price 1s. (2 parts
complete in cloth, 2/4)

The /Musical Times/ speaks in the highest terms of above work.

DR. AHN'S FIRST FRENCH COURSE. Edited by S. Bartlett (Head Master
Mercers' and Stationers' School), Post 8vo., cloth, 1s. 6d.

HARMONISING OF MELODIES, A Text-Book for Students and Beginners, by H.
C. Banister, cr. 8vo, cloth, 2s.

MUSICAL SHORTHAND for Composers, Students of Harmony, Counterpoint,
etc., can be written very rapidly and is more legible than printed
music, with Specimens from Bach, Handel, Chopin, Wagner, Mendelssohn,
Spohr, Mozart, etc., by Francis Taylor, 14 pages, 12mo, 6d.

"Composers and Students of Music expend a vast amount of time in mere
painful mechanism." We have only six totally unlike signs. These from
their simplicity can be written with great rapidity, one dip of the
pen sufficing for an entire page, and the writing being as legible as
possible.--/Preface/.

       *       *       *       *       *

          WORKS ON THE PIANOFORTE, &c.

PIANO TEACHING. Advice to Pupils and Young Teachers, by F. Le Couppey
(Prof. in the Conservatory of Paris, etc.), Translated from the 3rd
French Edition by M. A. Bierstadt, post 8vo, cloth, 2s.

GREATER WORKS OF CHOPIN, (Polonaises, Mazurkas, Nocturnes, etc.), and
how they should be played, by J. Kleczynski, translated by Miss N.
Janotha and edited by Sutherland Edwards, with Portrait, Facsimile,
etc., cr. 8vo, cloth, 5s.

PIANOFORTE TEACHER'S GUIDE, by L. Plaidy, translated by Fanny Raymond
Ritter, cr. 8vo, boards, 1s.

MUSIC AND MUSICIANS, Essays and Criticisms, by Robert Schumann,
translated, edited and annotated by F. R. Ritter, Portrait of Robert
Schumann, photographed from a Crayon by Bendemann, First Series,
/Sixth Edition/, thick cr. 8vo, cloth, 8s. 6d.

/Ditto/, 2nd Series, 2nd Edition, thick cr. 8vo, cloth, 10s. 6d.

EHRENFECHTER (C. A.), Technical Study in the art of Pianoforte Playing
(Deppe's principles), with numerous illustrations, fourth edition, cr.
8vo, bevelled cl., 2s. 6d.

AN ESSAY ON THE THEORY AND PRACTICE OF TUNING IN GENERAL, and on
Schiebler's Invention of Tuning Pianofortes and Organs by the
Metronome in Particular. Trans. by A. Wehrhan, sewed, 1s.

THE ART OF MODULATION, A Hand-book Showing at a Glance the Modulations
from one Key to any other on the Octave, etc., Edited by Carli
Zoeller, 2nd Edition, roy. 8vo, paper, 2s. 6d. or (cloth, 4s.)

EHRENFECHTER (C. A.), Delivery in the Art of Pianoforte Playing, on
Rhythm, Measure, Phrasing, Tempo, cr. 8vo, cloth, 2s.

BEETHOVEN'S PIANOFORTE SONATAS Explained by Ernst von Elterlein trans.
by E. Hill, with Preface by Ernst Pauer, entirely new and revised
edition (the Fifth), with Portrait, Facsimile and View of House, cr.
8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d.

BEETHOVEN'S SYMPHONIES in their Ideal Significance, explained by Ernst
von Elterlein, translated by Francis Weber, with an account of the
facts relating to Beethoven's 10th Symphony, by L. Nohl, /Second
Edition/, with Portrait, cr. 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d.

PIANOFORTE SCALES in Thirds and Sixths for Each Hand in all the Major
and Minor Keys, Fingered and Arranged by M. Rock, folio, 2s.

BEETHOVEN'S SYMPHONIES Critically discussed by A. T. Teetgen. /Second
Edition/, cloth, 3s. 6d.

THE DEPPE FINGER EXERCISES for rapidly developing an Artistic Touch in
Pianoforte Playing, carefully arranged, classified and explained by
Amy Fay, English Fingering, folio, 1s. 6d. (Continental Fingering, 1s.
6d.)

HOW TO PLAY CHOPIN. The Works of Chopin and their proper
Interpretation. By KLECZYNSKI, translated by A. WHITTINGHAM, 5th. Ed.,
/Woodcut and Music Illus/. Post 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d.

SCHUMANN'S RULES MAXIMS for young Musicians, 4d.

PRACTICE REGISTER for Pupil's Daily Practice. A specimen, 1d., or 1s.
4d. per 100.

REEVES' VAMPING TUTOR, Art of Extemporaneous Accompaniment or Playing
by ear on the Pianoforte, rapidly enabling anyone having an ear for
music (with or without any knowledge of musical notation) to accompany
Waltzes, Polkas, Songs, and with equal facility in any key, with
practical examples, including Ma Normandi (in C), Lilla's a Lady, The
Swiss Boy, Home Sweet Home, Blue Bells of Scotland, Nancy Dawson, Ma
Normandi (in A), The Miller of the Dee by Francis Taylor, folio, 2s.

MOZART'S Don Giovanni, a Commentary, from the 3rd French Edition of
Charles Gounod, by W. Clark and J. T. Hutchinson, cr. 8vo, cloth, 3s.
6d.

TUNING THE PIANOFORTE.--SMITH (Hermann), The Art of Tuning the
Pianoforte, a New and Comprehensive Treatise to enable the musician to
Tune his Pf. upon the system founded on the Theory of Equal
Temperament, cr. 8vo, limp cloth, /New Edition Thoroughly Revised/,
2s.

A HISTORY OF PIANOFORTE MUSIC, With Critical Estimates of its Greatest
Masters and Sketches of their Lives by John C. Fillmore, cr. 8vo,
cloth, 3s. 6d.

TRANSPOSITION AT SIGHT, For Students of the Organ and Pianoforte, by
H. Ernst Nichol, 2nd Edition, cr. 8vo, sewed, 1s. cloth, 1s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

                  THE VIOLIN.

HOW TO REPAIR VIOLINS AND OTHER MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS With Diagrams, by
Alfred F. Common, cr. 8vo, boards, 1s.

INFORMATION FOR PLAYERS, OWNERS, DEALERS AND MAKERS OF BOW
INSTRUMENTS, ALSO FOR STRING MANUFACTURERS, taken from Personal
Experiences, Studies and Observations by William Hepworth, with
Illustrations of Stainer and Guarnerius Violins, etc., cr. 8vo, cloth,
2s. 6d.

NOTICE OF ANTHONY STRADIVARI, the celebrated Violin Maker known by the
name of Stradivarius, preceded by Historical and Critical Researches
on the origin and Transformations of Bow Instruments, and followed by
a Theoretical Analysis of the Bow etc., by F. J. Fetis, translated by
J. Bishop, Facsimile, 8vo, cloth, 5s.

BIOGRAPHICAL DICTIONARY OF FIDDLERS, including Performers on the
Violoncello and Double Bass, Past and Present, containing a Sketch of
their Artistic Career, together with Notes of their Compositions, by
A. Mason Clarke, 9 /Portraits/, post 8vo, cloth, 5s.

HOW TO MAKE A VIOLIN, Practically Treated, 2 Folding Plates and many
Illustrations, by J. Broadhouse, cr. 8vo, bevelled cloth, 3s. 6d.

VIOLIN MANUFACTURE IN ITALY AND ITS GERMAN ORIGIN, by Dr. E. Schebek,
translated by W. E. Lawson, 8vo., sewed, 1s.

SKETCHES OF GREAT VIOLINISTS AND GREAT PIANISTS. Biographical and
Anecdotal, with Account of the Violin and Early Violinists (Viotti,
Spohr, Paganini, De Beriot, Ole Bull, Clementi, Moscheles, Schumann
(Robert and Clara), Chopin, Thalberg, Gottschalk, Liszt), by G. T.
Ferris; /Second Edition/, cr. 8vo, bevelled cloth, 3s. 6d. (or gilt
edges, 4s. 6d.)

FACTS ABOUT FIDDLES, Violins Old and New. By J. Broadhouse, 3rd
Edition, 6d.

TECHNICS OF VIOLIN PLAYING. BY KARL COURVOISIER. /With Illustrations/,
8th Edition, paper 1s. (or cloth, thick paper, 2s. 6d.) /Highly
commended by Joachim./

HOW TO PLAY THE FIDDLE, for Beginners on the Violin. By H. W. and G.
Gresswell. 7th edition, 1s. (cloth, 2s.)

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF LOUIS SPOHR. 2 vols in 1, thick 8vo, cloth, 7s. 6d.
(pub. 15s.)

TREATISE ON THE STRUCTURE AND PRESERVATION OF THE VIOLIN AND ALL OTHER
BOW INSTRUMENTS, together with an account of the most celebrated
makers and of the genuine characteristics of their Instruments, by J.
A. Otto, with additions by J. Bishop, cr. 8vo, cloth, 3s.

       *       *       *       *       *

                  ORGAN WORKS.

MODERN ORGAN TUNING, the How and Why, clearly explaining the Nature of
the Organ Pipe and the System of Equal Temperament together with an
Historic Record of the Evolution of the Diatonic Scale from the Greek
Tetrachord by Hermann Smith, crown 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d.

ANALYSIS OF MENDELSSOHN'S ORGAN WORKS, a Study of their Structural
Features, for the use of Students, 127 Musical Examples, portrait and
facsimiles, cr. 8vo, bevelled cloth, 4s. 6d.

ORGANIST'S QUARTERLY JOURNAL of Original Compositions. Edited by Dr.
W. Spark, 5s. per part. /For Contents see end of Catalogue./

New Series Volume, 160 large pages, oblong folio, bound in cloth, 18s.

RINK'S PRACTICAL ORGAN SCHOOL: A New Edition, Carefully Revised. The
Pedal Part printed on a separate Staff, and the Preface, Remarks and
Technical Terms translated from the German, expressly for this edition
by John Hiles. The Six Books Complete, handsomely bound in red cloth,
gilt edges, ob. folio, 10s. 6d. (issued at 20s.), or the six parts 7s.
6d. (issued at 6s. each.)

ORGANS AND ORGANISTS IN PARISH CHURCHES, A Handbook of the Law
relating to the Custody, Control and Use of Organs, and to the
Position, Lights, and Disabilities of Organists, to which is Added a
Chapter on the Hiring of Pianos, and on "The Three Years System," by
William C. A. Blow, M.A., Oxon., of the Inner Temple, Esq.,
Barrister-at-Law, cr. 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

A SHORT HISTORY OF THE ORGAN, Organists, and Services of the Chapel of
Alleyn's College, Dulwich, with Extracts from the Diary of the
Founder, by W. H. Stocks, cr. 8vo, sewed, 1s.

THE INFLUENCE OF THE ORGAN IN HISTORY. By Dudley Buck, 1s.

HENRY SMART'S ORGAN COMPOSITIONS Analysed. By J. Broadhouse, cr. 8vo,
cloth, 2s. 6d.

REFORM IN ORGAN BUILDING, by Thomas Casson, 6d.

THE ORGAN, Its Compass, Tablature, and Short and Incomplete Octaves,
by John W. Warman, A.C.O., imp. 8vo, sewed, 3s. 6d. or boards, cloth
back, 4s. 6d.

CATECHISM for the Harmonium and American Organ, by John Hiles, post
8vo, sewed, 1s.

RIMBAULT (Dr. E. F.), The Early English Organ Builders and their
Works, from the 15th Century to the Period of the Great Rebellion, an
unwritten chapter on the History of the Organ, Well printed, with
woodcuts, post 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

               VOICE AND SINGING.

TWELVE LESSONS ON BREATHING AND BREATH CONTROL, for Singers, Speakers
and Teachers, by Geo. E. Thorp, crown 8vo, limp cloth, 1s.

TWENTY LESSONS ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE VOICE, or Singers, Speakers
and Teachers, by Geo. E. Thorp, crown 8vo, limp cloth, 1s.

50 MUSICAL HINTS TO CLERGYMEN, Management of Breath, Classification of
Male Voices, Management of the Voice, The Service, with twenty
specially written Exercises by Geo. F. Grover, 1s.

CATECHISM OF PART SINGING AND THE CHORAL SERVICES. By John Hiles, 3rd
Edition, thick post 8vo, price 1s.

/Advice to Singers on every point of interest in reference to the
Vocal Organs/.

HOW TO SING AN ENGLISH BALLAD. By E. Philp, 7th Edition, 6d.

VOCAL EXERCISES FOR CHOIRS AND SCHOOLS. By Dr. Westbrook, 2d.

RUDIMENTS OF VOCAL MUSIC. With 42 Preparatory Exercises, Rounds and
Songs in the Treble Clef, by T. Mee Pattison, 2nd Ed., 4d.

SOME FAMOUS SONGS, an Art Historical Sketch. By F. R. Ritter, 1s.

VOICE PRODUCTION AND VOWEL ENUNCIATION, by F. F. Mewburn Levien,
Diagrams by Arthur C. Behrend, post 8vo, 6d.

POSITION AND ACTION IN SINGING, a Study of the True Conditions of
Tone, a Solution of Automatic (Artistic) Breath Control, by Edmund J.
Myer, cr. 8vo, 4s. 6d.

NATIONAL SCHOOL OF OPERA IN ENGLAND; being The Substance of a Paper
read before the Licentiates of Trinity College, March, 1882, by Frank
Austin, post 8vo, sewed, 6d.

HOW TO UNDERSTAND WAGNER'S "RING OF THE NIBELUNG," being the Story and
a Descriptive Analysis of the "Rheingold," the "Valkyr," "Siegfried"
and the "Dusk of the Gods," with a number of Musical Examples by
Gustave Kobbé, Sixth Edition, post 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d.

"To be appreciated in the smallest way Wagner must be studied in
advance."--/Illustrated London News./

RATIONAL ACCOMPANIMENT TO THE PSALMS by F. Gilbert Webb, post 8vo, 6d.

HOW TO PLAY FROM SCORE.--Treatise on Accompaniment from Score on the
Organ or Pianoforte by F. Fetis, trans. by A. Whittingham, cr. 8vo,
cloth, 3s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHOIR LISTS FOR SUNDAY SERVICES.

 No. 1. Morning and Evening, printed in red, 1s. 4d. per 100.
 No. 2. Morning, Afternoon, and Evening, printed in red, 1s. 6d. per
        100.
 No. 3. Morning and Evening, printed in red and black, 1s. 8d. per 100.
 No. 4. Morning and Even., printed in red, 1s. 6d. per 100.
 No. 5. Quarto Size, Matins, Litany, Holy Communion, First Evensong,
        Second Evensong, Gothic Letter, printed in red, 6d. per dozen,
        3s. per 100.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHOIR ATTENDANCE REGISTER, 8vo, cloth.

 No. 1. Ruled for a Choir of 20 or less, for one year, beginning at
        any date, 1s. 6d.
 No. 2. Ruled for a Choir of 40 or less, for one year, beginning at
        any date, 2s.
 No. 3. Ruled for a choir of 60 or less, for one year, beginning at
        any date, 2s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

             /Performing Edition./

THE CREATION, A Sacred Oratorio composed by Joseph Haydn, Vocal Score,
The Pianoforte Accompaniment arranged and the whole edited by G. A.
Macfarren, 8vo, paper covers, 2s., boards, 2s. 6d., scarlet cloth, 4s.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM LYRE TO MUSE, A History of the Aboriginal Union of Music and
Poetry, By J. Donovan, cr. 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

POPULAR PART SONGS.

 1. Merrily goes the Mill, by T. B. Southgate, 1d.
 2. Take, O Take those Lips away, Part Song for S.A.T.B. by Claude E.
    Cover, A.R.C.O., 1-1/2d.
 3. Pack Clouds Away, for S.A.T.B., by Claude E. Cover, A.R.C.O., 2d.
 4. Summer Roses, for S.A.T.B., by G. Rayleigh Vicars, 2d.
 5. Erin, Dear Erin, for T.A.T.B., by Churchill Sibley, 2d.
 6. Caledonia! Land o' the Rocky Dell, for S.A.T.B., by Churchill
    Sibley, 3d.

       *       *       *       *       *

     =_TO ALL MUSICIANS._=              --Here is something worth
                                          reading and when you
 =[Special price see below.]=             have read it send for
                                          a copy without delay.

The Publisher of The Musical Standard has secured the whole of the
copies left unsold at =14=/-net by Messrs. S. Low, Marston and
Company, Ltd., of the work entitled


                      THE
           NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY
                      OF
               BRITISH MUSICIANS.

           BY JOHN WARRINER, MUS.D.,
            TRINITY COLLEGE, DUBLIN.

        INTRODUCTION BY JOSEPH BENNETT.

          =Over 500 Photo Portraits=

Of well-known and eminent living Musicians of Great Britain and
Ireland, with short Biographical notice of each.

The Whole Bound in One Handsome oblong folio Volume, cloth lettered.
Offered for 7/6 post free (or 8/-post free abroad).

       *       *       *       *       *


       KING'S ROYAL ALBUMS, Nos. 1 and 2.

       NATIONAL AND PATRIOTIC SONG ALBUM.

With Pianoforte Accompaniment. In 2 Bks., 1s. each.

 BOOK 1.                              BOOK 2.
 God Save the King                    Hearts of Oak
 God Bless the Prince of Wales        Stand United
 There's a Land (Dear England)        The Cause of England's Greatness
 Victoria                             The Last Rose of Summer
 God Bless our Sailor Prince          The Leather Bottle
 Here's a Health unto His Majesty     Home, Sweet Home
 Lord of the Sea                      Three Cheers for the Red, White
 Roast Beef of Old England                  and Blue
 The Blue Bells of Scotland           The Minstrel Boy
 Tom Bowling                          The British Grenadiers
 Come Lassies and Lads                Auld Lang Syne
 Ye Mariners of England               Rule Britannia
 The Bay of Biscay

       *       *       *       *       *

      King's Royal Albums, No. 3. Price 1/-

    10 MARCHES FOR THE PIANO. BY J. P. SOUSA.

  1. The Washington Post.     6. The Corcoran Cadets.
  2. Manhatton Beach.         7. Our Flirtation.
  3. The Liberty Bell.        8. March past of the Rifle Regiment.
  4. High School Cadets.      9. March past of the National Fencibles.
  5. The Belle of Chicago.   10. Semper Fidelis.

       *       *       *       *       *

      King's Royal Album, No. 4. Price 1/-

        SIX ORGAN PIECES FOR CHURCH USE.

          EDITED BY WILLIAM SMALLWOOD.

 With Ped. Obb., Selections from rarely known works.
  1. Moderato con moto        4. Andante Religioso
  2. Adagio Expressivo        5. Andante con moto
  3. Andante Moderato         6. Lento Cantabile

       *       *       *       *       *

      King's Royal Album, No. 5. Price 1/-

 SMALLWOOD'S ESMERALDA ALBUM FOR PIANO.
  Belgium (Galop).                      Esmeralda (Transcription on
  Belle of Madrid (Tempi di Polka).       Levey's Popular Song).
  Emmeline (Galop).                     Placid Stream (Morceau).
                                        The Seasons (Galop).

       *       *       *       *       *

      King's Royal Album, No. 6. Price 6d.

BALFE'S ROSE OF CASTILLE, 6 FAVOURITE MELODIES, easily arranged for
the Pianoforte by E. F. Rimbault.

 1. Convent Cell (The).
 2. 'Twas Rank and Fame.
 3. Tho' fortune darkly o'er me frown.
 4. I am a simple Muleteer.
 5. I'm not the Queen.
 6. List to the Gay Castanet.

       *       *       *       *       *

      King's Royal Album, No. 7. Price 1s.

          10 MARCHES. By J. P. SOUSA.

       Arranged for Mandoline and Piano.

 1. The Washington Post.    6. The Corcoran Cadets.
 2. Manhatton Beach.        7. Our Flirtation.
 3. The Liberty Bell.       8. March past of the Rifle Regiment.
 4. High School Cadets.     9. March past of the National Fencibles.
 5. The Bell of Chicago.   10. Semper Fidelis.

       *       *       *       *       *

      King's Royal Album, No. 8. Price 1s.

          10 MARCHES. By J. P. SOUSA.

Arranged for Banjo and Piano. (Contents as No. 7.)

       *       *       *       *       *

      King's Royal Album, No. 9. Price 1s.

          10 MARCHES. By J. P. SOUSA.

Arranged for Violin and Piano. (Contents as No. 7.)

       *       *       *       *       *

     King's Royal Album, No. 10. Price 1s.

          10 MARCHES. By J. P. SOUSA.

Arranged for American Organ. (Contents as No. 7.)

       *       *       *       *       *

          King's Royal Album, No. XI.

 GRIEG'S "PEER GYNT" SUITE.
  1. Dance of the Gnomes.  4. Amitrass' Dance.
  2. Ases Death.           5. Solvejags Song.
  3. Morning.

       *       *       *       *       *

          King's Royal Album, No. 12.

 GRIEG'S LYRISCHE STUCKE AND NORWEGIAN BRIDAL PROCESSION.
  1. Arietta.                   5. Popular Melody.
  2. Waltzer.                   6. Norwegian Melody.
  3. Watchman's Song.           7. National Song.
  4. Fairy Dance.               8. Norwegian Bridal March.

       *       *       *       *       *

          King's Royal Album, No. 13.

GRIEG'S FOUR HUMOURESKES, MINUETS AND FUNERAL MARCH.

       *       *       *       *       *

          King's Royal Album, No. 14.

           HIAWATHA MANDOLINE ALBUM.

          ARRANGED BY SYDNEY OSBORNE.

 1. Hiawatha Cake Walk      5. Over the Waves Waltz
 2. Minnehaha Cake Walk     6. Donau Wellen Waltz
 3. Alice Where Art Thou    7. Blue Danube Waltz
 4. Kathleen Mavourneen

       *       *       *       *       *

          King's Royal Album, No. 15.

ORIGINAL VOLUNTARIES FOR AMERICAN ORGAN OR HARMONIUM.

              BY EDWIN M. FLAVELL.

 1. Andante con Moto      6. Prayer
 2. Evensong              7. Canzonetta
 3. March in F            8. A Call to Battle
 4. Chorale               9. Souvenir
 5. A Plaintive Song     10. Allegro

       *       *       *       *       *

          King's Royal Album, No. 16.

12 VOLUNTARIES FOR THE AMERICAN ORGAN OR HARMONIUM.

                BY J. E. NEWELL.

 1. Postludium              7. Offertoire
 2. Communion               8. Andante Piacevole
 3. Andante con Moto        9. Morning Prayer
 4. Prelude                10. Loud Voluntary
 5. Diapason Movement      11. Sketch
 6. Faith "Melody"         12. Recessional March

       *       *       *       *       *

MODERN CHURCH MUSIC.

  1. Easter Anthem, "Jesus Lives!" by Rev. T. Herbert Spinney, price
     2d.
  2. Anthem for Whitsuntide and General Use, "Come Holy Ghost our
     Souls Inspire," by Thomas Adams, F.R.C.O., price 2d.
  3. Story of the Ascension, by Rev. John Napleton, price 1-1/2d.
  4. Anthem, "God so Loved the World," by J. Jamouneau, price 2d.
  5. Magnificat in B flat, by Thomas Adams, F.R.C.O., Price 3d.
  6. Nunc Dimittis in B flat, by Thomas Adams, F.R.C.O., Price 2d.
  7. Four Kyries, by Charles Steggall, Berthold Tours, E. J. Hopkins,
     J. M. W. Young, price 1-1/2d.
  8. Te Deum, by T. E. Spinney, 1-1/2d.
  9. Anthem, "I am the Good Shepherd," by G. Rayleigh Vicars, 2d.
 10. Story of the Cross, Music by H. Clifton Bowker, 2d.
 12. Story of the Cross, Music by Dr. Geo. Prior, 2d.
 13. The Lord's Prayer, Music by Ernest Austin, 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

AMERICAN ORGAN, Folio, Edited by Alfred Whittingham, in Six Books, 1s.
each, complete paper covers, 3s., cloth bound, 5s.

       *       *       *       *       *

PIANOFORTE (SOLO).

Coon Band Contest, Cake Walk, by Arthur Pryor, 2s.

Lefebure-Wely's St. Sulpice. Reminiscence by W. SMALLWOOD, 1s. 6d.

Album Leaves: Pianoforte Sketches, without Octaves, by F. W.
Davenport, 1s. 6d. each Number.

 No. 1. Waltz in F
        Dance in G
 No. 2. A Little Fugue in F minor
        Caprice in C
 No. 3. Prelude in G
        Melody in G
 No. 4. Sonatina in C

Tschaikowsky's 1812 Overture, arr. by E. Evans, 2s.

Amarylliss, Morceaux de Salon, by Leonard Gautier, 1s. 6d.

Tschaikowsky's Casse Noisette Suite, arr. by E. Evans, 2s.

Grand Festival March, "Illogan," by H. C. Tonking, 2s.

       *       *       *       *       *

PIANOFORTE (4 HANDS.)

Tschaikowsky's 1812 Overture, arr. from the Full Score by E. Evans,
3s.

Tschaikovsky's Casse Noisette Suite, arr. by E. Evans, 3s.

       *       *       *       *       *

VIOLIN.

A Selection of Favourite Airs arranged for the Violin by Henry Farmer,
complete 1s. 6d., Piano Acc. /ad lib./ 2s. 6d.

                   CONTENTS.
 1. Theme. Variations (Mozart).
 2. With Verdure Clad (Haydn).
 3. German Shepherd's Song and Rataplain (Figlia del Reggimento).
 4. Da Qual di (Anna Bolena), Souave Immagine (Mercadante).
 5. Mecco tu Vieni (La Straniera).

       *       *       *       *       *

VIOLIN AND PIANO.

Grand Festival March, "Illogan," by H. C. Tonking, 2s.

       *       *       *       *       *

            MANUSCRIPT MUSIC PAPER.

 /(a)/ 12 Staves, roy. 8vo (10 by 6-1/2) ruled plain in quires (120
       sheets), the lot 2/6.

This is pre-eminently the Musical Students' Paper, as it is light,
portable, smooth and easy to write upon; each sheet, too, will hold a
large quantity of matter. There is no paper better suited for
Exercises on Counterpoint and Harmony.

 /(b)/ 12 Staves, oblong, folio (14 by 10), ruled in groups of 3
       staves or Organ Music, 5 quires (120 sheets), the lot, 5/-

The paper is of the same size as ordianry oblong folio, Organ Music,
/e.g./, English Organ Music, Best's Arrangements, etc.

 /(c)/ 12 Staves, folio, music size (10 by 14), 5 quires (120
       sheets), the lot 5/-

Exactly the same in size as ordinary folio printed music so that upon
it Songs of Organ Pieces may be written just as they are to be
printed. It is a very useful paper, as Manuscript music written on it
can be bound with Printed Music.

 /(d)/ 12 Staves, quarto size (11-3/4 by 9-1/4), 5 quires (120
       sheets), the lot 3/6.

 /(e)/ 12 Staves, oblong quarto (9-1/4 by 11-3/4), 5 quires (120
       sheets), the lot 3/6.

 /(f)/ 12 Staves, folio music size (10 by 14), 5 quires (120
       sheets), the lot 5/-

 /(g)/ 12 Staves, folio music size (ruled even), 10 by 14, 5 quires
       (120 sheets), the lot 5/-

 /(h)/ 14 Staves, quarto size (11-3/4 by 9-1/4), 5 quires (120
       sheets), the lot 3/6.

       *       *       *       *       *


       THE ORGANIST'S QUARTERLY JOURNAL.
           Of Original Compositions.

Founded by DR. Wm. SPARK, Late Organist, Town Hall, Leeds.

Price 5/-each, or Subscription, 10/6 for 4 issues.

New Series, Volume, containing 160 large pages, all with /ped. obb./,
bound in cloth, 18/s./


             =Part 12, New Series.=

 1. IN MEMORIAM            REV. GEOF. C. RYLY, M.A., Mus. Bac. Oxon.
 2. TOCCATA                                           G. B. POLLERI.
 3. OVERTURE from Epiphany                         ALFRED KING, M.D.


             =Part XI., New Series.=

 1. PRELUDE AND FUGUE WITH POSTLUDE              E. A. CHAMBERLAYNE.
 2. PRELUDE AND FUGUE                                      F. YOUNG.
 3. FUGUE                                          ARCHIBALD DONALD.
 4. FUGUE                                              WILLIAM HOPE.


             =Part 10, New Series.=

 1. FUGUE                                          ARCHIBALD DONALD.
 2. PRELUDE AND FUGUE WITH POSTLUDE              E. A. CHAMBERLAYNE.
 3. PRELUDE AND FUGUE                                      F. YOUNG.


             =Part 9, New Series.=

 1. ANDANTE CON MOTO                      W. A. MONTGOMERY, L.T.C.L.
 2. FANTASIA in E minor                     CUTHBERT HARRIS, Mus. B.
 3. POSTLUDE at Ephes. V. v. 19. Si tibi placeat, Mihi con displicet
    W. CONRADI,(Y. of B. 1816), Paul's Org. St. Church, Schwerin i/m
                                                            Germany.
 4. HARVEST MARCH                                    HENRY J. POOLE.


             =Part 8, New Series.=

 1. SCHERZO MINUET W. MULLINEUX, Organist of the Town Hall, Bolton.
 2. INTRODUCTION to the Hymn on the Passion, "O Haupt Voll Blut und
    Wunden"   W. CONRADI. Organist Paul's Church, Schwerin, Germany.
 3. THESIS AND ANTITHESIS, or DISPUTE, APPEASEMENT, CONCILIATION.
              W. CONRADI, Organist Paul's Church, Schwerin, Germany.
 4. CARILLON in E             CUTHBERT HARRIS, Mus.B., F.R.C.O., &c.
 5. ANDANTE "Hope"                                    INGLIS BERVON.
 6. ORCHESTRAL MARCH in C
   JAMES CRAPPER, L.Mus., Organist of the Parish Ch., Kirkcudbright.


             =Part 7, New Series.=

 1. ANDANTE GRAZIOSO in G                CHAS. E. MELVILLE, F.R.C.O.
 2. POLISH SONG, Arranged for the organ by PERCIVAL GARRETT. CHOPIN.
 3. INTRODUCTION, VARIATIONS, AND FINALE on the Hymn Tune
    "Rockingham."                             CH. R. FISHER, Mus. B.
 4. TWO SOFT MOVEMENTS                           W. C. FILEY, I.S.M.
              1. "Espérance."         2. "Tendrerse."
 5. ANDANTE in A flat
   W. GRIFFITHS, Mus. B., Org. of St. Sepulchre Church, Northampton.
 6. FUGUE, 4 Voice, 3 Subjects                      DR. J. C. TILLY.


             =Part 6, New Series.=

 1. CON MOTO MODERATO IN C    ORLANDO A. MANSFIELD, Mus.B., F.R.C.O.
 2. TEMPO DI MENUETTO                                   GEO. H. ELY.
 3. DIRGE IN MEMORIAM, REGINALD ADKINS        J. E. ADKINS, F.R.C.O.
 4. ANDANTE in F                                        R. H. HEATH.
 5. ABERYSTWYTH OFFERTOIRE                          J. G. MOUNTFORD.
 6. ANDANTE in D (Prière)                     E. Evelyn BARRON, M.A.


             =Part 5, New Series.=

 1. ALLEGRETTO SCHERZANDO in A flat                   W. E. ASHMALL.
 2. ANDANTE RELIGIOSO in G                          DR. J. BRADFORD.
 3. MARCH POMPOSO in E flat                         CHARLES DARNTON.
 4. ANDANTE CON MOTO "Twilight"                CH. R. FISHER, Mus.B.
 5. MINUET In F                              W. E. BELCHER, F.R.C.O.


             =Part 4, New Series.=

 1. ANDANTE MODERATO                                        F. READ.
 2. PRELUDE AND FUGUE in D minor                 E. A. CHAMBERLAYNE.
 3. SKETCH                                      ARTHUR GEO. COLBORN.
 4. FUGUE                                              JAMES TURPIN.
 5. ALLEGRO                                       CHARLES H. FISHER.
 6. MARCHE MYSTIQUE
              THEME BY ROLAND, DE LASSUS.--A Relic of Ancient Times.


             =Part 3, New Series.=

 1. MINUET AND TRIO in F             ED. J. BELLERBY, Mus. B., Oxon.
 2. "DUNDEE" ("or French")                         JOHN P. ATTWATER.
 3. ADAGIO. An Elegy in G minor             CHAS. R. FISHER, Mus. B.
 4. ANDANTE, A major                                        F. HONE.
 5. ALLEGRO, D minor                               GEO. MINNS (Ely).


             =Part 2, New Series.=

 1. TOCCATA FANTASIA (/Study in C minor/)            E. T. DRIFFIEL.
 2. ANDANTE GRAZIOSO                                     W. FAULKES.
 3. MARCHE FUNEBRE                                  ARTHUR WANDERER.
 4. ANDANTE SEMPLICE                             E. A. CHAMBERLAYNE.
 5. FESTAL MARCH                                     A. W. KETELBEY.


             =Part 1, New Series.=

 1. OFFERTOIRE in A minor                    FRED. W. DAL (Leipzig).
 2. SECOND FANTASIA on SCOTCH AIRS                    WILLIAM SPARK.
 3. ADESTE FIDELES (with Variations and Fugue)         CHARLES HUNT.
 4. INTERMEZZO                               G. TOWNSHEND DRIFFIELD.


            =Part 103 (Old Series).=

 1. POSTLUDE in G                      FREDERICK W. HOLLOWAY, F.C.O.
 2. SUITE: NO. 1, PRELUDE; NO. 2, BERCEUSE; NO. 3, TOCCATA
                                             LAURENT PARODI (Genoa).
 3. NOCTURNE                                        WILLIAM LOCKETT.
 4. ANDANTE PASTORALE in B minor      JACOB BRADFORD, Mus. D., Oxon.
 5. INTRODUCTORY VOLUNTARY                       ALBERT W. KETELBEY.
 6. FUGUE                                       R. J. ROWE, L.R.A.M.


LONDON: WILLIAM REEVES, 83, CHARING CROSS ROAD, W.

       *       *       *       *       *

      Note the Price, PENCE not SHILLINGS.


          POPULAR AND COPYRIGHT MUSIC.

Full Music Size, Well Printed and Critically Correct.

                  ISSUED BY
                WILLIAM REEVES.

 2^D (Postage 1/2d. each.)             (Postage 1/2d. each.) 2^D


                     VOCAL.

 273. Alice where art thou?                        /J. Ascher/
 396. Always do as I do                            /Tinney/
 174. Angels at the Casement, A flat               /W. M. Hutchison/
 105. Banner of the King                           /H. Fortesque/
 172. Barney O'Hea                                 /S. Lover/
 224. Bay of Biscay                                /J. Davey/
 181. Border Lands (Sacred)                        /Miss Lindsay/
 180. Borderer's Challenge                         /H. J. Stark/
 390. Cat in the Chimney                           /L. Kingsmill/
 392. Child's Good Morning                         /O. Barri/
 391. Child's Good Night                           /O. Barri/
 383. Come into the Garden Maud                    /Balfe/
 184. Crossing the Brook                           /Edith Cooke/
 389. Dawn of Heaven                               /Buonetti/
 188. Diver, The                                   /E. J. Loder/
 384. God Save the King                            /Dr. Jno. Bull/
 226. Hearts of Oak                                /Dr. W. Boyce/
 100. Honey Are You True to Me (Coon Song)         /Lindsay Lennox/
 266. Kathleen Mavourneen                          /Crouch/
 213. Lady Clara Vere de Vere                      /Miss Lindsay/
 404. Last Good Bye to Mother                      /C. Dargan/
 227. Last Rose of Summer                          /Thos. Moore/
 215. Listen                                       /A. H. Behrend/
 249. Maggie's Promise                             /W. Gordon/
 115. Sharing the Burden                           /J. E. Webster/
 225. Tom Bowling                                  /C. Dibdin/
 236. When other Lips (Then you'll remember me)    /Balfe/


                  VOCAL DUETS.

 190. Flow on thou Shining River                   /Sir J. Stevenson/
 116. Gipsy Countess                               /Glover/


                  PIANOFORTE.

 118. A la Valse                                   /Roeckel/
 275. Alice where art thou? (easily arr. by)       /Percy E. Douglas/
 278. Army and Navy March                          /Henzell/
 457. Au Village                                   /Tschaikowsky/
 268. Battle March (Delhi)                         /Pridham/
 373. Belgium Galop                                /Smallwood/
 437. Belle of Chicago March                       /J. P. Sousa/
 122. Berceuse                                     /Roeckel/
 376. Blumenlied                                   /Gustav Lange/
 379. Bridal Chorus and Wedding March              /Wagner/
 453. Cadet Two Step (easily arranged)             /Alard/
 142. Charming Mazurka                             /Gungl/
 456. Chanson Triste                               /Tschaikowsky/
 456. Chant sans Paroles                           /Tschaikowsky/
 393. Chinese Patrol March                         /D. Pecorini/
 243. Cloches du Monastere                         /Lefebure-Wely/
 458. Coon Band Contest                            /A. Pryor/
 438. Corcoran Cadets March                        /J. P. Sousa/
 125. Corricolo Galop (Easily arranged)            /L. Mullen/
 377. Edelweiss                                    /Gustav Lange/
 374. Emmeline Galop                               /Smallwood/
 308. Fille du Regiment                            /Oesten/
 167. Flying Dutchman (La Vaisseau Fantome)        /Wagner/
 244. Forward March                                /E. H. Sugg/
      Four Humoresques:
 206.     Valse in D, No. 1                        /Grieg/
 207.     Minuetto in A minor, No. 2               /Grieg/
 208.     Allegretto, No. 3                        /Grieg/
 209.     Allegro Alla Burla, No. 4                /Grieg/
 210. Funeral March                                /Grieg/
 305. French Air (Marseillaise)                    /Eric Stapleton/
 306. German Air (Watch on Rhine)                  /Eric Stapleton/
 264. Gipsies' March                               /C. Heins/
 252. Grand March (arr. by P. E. Douglas)          /Blake/
 151. Grand March of the Warriors                  /H. V. Lewis/
 276. Hiawatha Cake Walk, (arr. by P. E. Douglas)  /Moret/
 436. High School Cadets March                     /J. P. Sousa/
 304. Irish Air (Last Rose of Summer)              /Eric Stapleton/
 303. Italian Air (Ah che la Morte)                /Eric Stapleton/
 288. Japanese National Hymn, Harmonized by Sydney Osborne.
 133. Kassala Gavotte                              /H. Wilcock/
 270. Kathleen Mavourneen                          /P. E. Douglas/
 171. Khartoum Quick March                         /F. P. Rabottini/
 286. King's Own March                             /Warwick Williams/
 246. Liberty Bell March                           /Sousa/
 135. Little Dear Gavotte                          /F. Astrella/
 162. Lohengrin                                    /Wagner/
 136. Maiden's Prayer                              /Badarazewska/
 435. Manhattan Beach March                        /J. P. Sousa/
 137. March in E flat                              /J. B. Mallett/
 441. March Past of the National Fencibles         /J. P. Sousa/
 440. March Past of the Rifle Regiment             /J. P. Sousa/
 140. May-Day Galopade                             /J. Gungl/
 141. Mazurka                                      /Badarazewska/
 143. Melodie                                      /Roeckel/
 247. Melody in F                                  /Rubinstein/
 211. Minuetto (from E minor Sonata)               /Grieg/
 163. Mountain Echo March                          /G. Gariboldi/
 385. Narcissus                                    /Nevin/
 439. Our Flirtation March                         /J. P. Sousa/
 147. Placid Stream                                /Smallwood/
 103. Queenie (Intermezzo)                         /P. D'Orsay/
 165. Rienzi                                       /Wagner/
 253. Robin's Return (arr. by P. E. Douglas)       /Fischer/
 148. Scherzino                                    /Roeckel/
 301. Scotch Air (Blue Bells of Scotland)          /Eric Stapleton/
 375. Seasons Galop                                /Smallwood/
 442. Semper Fidelis                               /J. P. Sousa/
 196. Silvery Echoes                               /Blake/
 394. Soldiers' Chorus (Faust)                     /Gounod/
 381. Sonatina in F                                /Beethoven/
 380. Sonatina in G                                /Beethoven/
 302. Spanish Air (Dance)                          /Eric Stapleton/
 378. Stephanie Gavotte                            /A. Czibulka/
 166. Tannhauser                                   /Wagner/
 150. Tarantella                                   /L. B. Mallett/
 290. Washington Post March (easy)                 /J. P. Sousa/
 454. White Wings (Transcription)                  /Smallwood/
 291. Woodland Echoes                              /Wyman/


                  PIANO DUETS.

 367. Come o'er the Stream Charlie                 /A. Mullen/
 371. From Greenland's Icy Mountains               /A. Mullen/
 372. I'd Choose to be a Daisy                     /A. Mullen/
 154. Maiden's Prayer                              /Badarazewka/
 156. March of the Cameron Men                     /A. Mullen/
 155. Marche des Croates                           /A. Mullen/
 159. Minnie, or Lilly Dale                        /A. Mullen/
 353. Silvery Waves (Wyman)                        /Andre/


                    DANCE.

 388. Amorosa Mazurka                              /A. H. Oswald/
 387. Blue Bells Schottische                       /S. Leslie/
 262. Blue Danube Waltz                            /Strauss/
 382. British Army Polka                           /Alec Carlton/
 285. City Polka                                   /J. D. Wimpenny/
 161. Cosmopolitan Quadrille                       /L. Gautier/
 127. Cyprus Polka                                 /Scotson Clark/
 402. Donau Wellen Waltz (Easily arr. by)          /Percy E. Douglas/
 101. Electric Waltz                               /H. Klein/
 397. Esmeralda Waltz (easily arranged)            /S. Osborne/
 395. Fancy Dress Ball Quadrille                   /Rosenberg/
 413. Faust Waltz (arr. by P. E. Douglas)          /Gouno/
 250. Flora Waltz                                  /W. Gordon/
 386. Horse Guards Schottische                     /S. Leslie/
 102. Lucifer Polka                                /H. Klein/
 251. Niagara Waltz                                /Vorzanger/
 144. Munich Polka                                 /Jos. Gungl/
 403. Olympia Schottische                          /Sydney J. Smith/
 254. Over the Waves (Sobra las Olas)              /Rosas/
 366. Roseland Waltz                               /Marietta Lena/
 415. Sweetheart Polka                             /Gounod/
 265. Vinolia Schottische                          /P. Lester/
 268. Woodland Whispers Waltz                      /Stanley/


               VIOLIN AND PIANO.

 256. Campbells are Coming                         /A. Mullen/
 257. British Grenadiers                           /A. Mullen/
 258. A Life on the Ocean Wave                     /A. Mullen/
 259. Hearts of Oak                                /A. Mullen/
 260. Ivy Green                                    /A. Mullen/
 261. Red, White and Blue                          /A. Mullen/
 317. Ben Bolt                                     /A. Mullen/
 312. Low Back'd Car                               /A. Mullen/
 313. Sprig of Shillelagh                          /A. Mullen/
 314. March from Norma                             /A. Mullen/
 315. March, Guillaume Tell                        /A. Mullen/
 316. Lass O'Gowrie                                /A. Mullen/
 284. Réverie (E min.)                             /W. Vinnicombe/


                    VIOLIN.

 170. March St. Olave                              /F. James/


              MANDOLINE AND PIANO.

 274. Alice where art Thou?
 407. Belle of Chicago March                       /J. P. Sousa/
 406. Blue Danube Waltz                            /Strauss/
 416. Cadet Two Step (arranged)                    /Alard/
 408. Corcoran Cadets March                        /J. P. Sousa/
 272. Donau Wellen Waltz                           /Ivanovici/
 414. Faust Waltz and Flower Song                  /Gounod/
 277. Hiawatha Popular Cake Walk                   /Neil Moret/
 401. High School Cadets March                     /J. P. Sousa/
 289. Honey are you true                           /Sydney Osborne/
 267. Kathleen Mavourneen                          /Crouch/
 399. Liberty Bell March                           /J. P. Sousa/
 400. Manhattan Beach March                        /J. P. Sousa/
 411. March Past of the National Fencibles         /J. P. Sousa/
 410. March Past of the Rifle Regiment             /J. P. Sousa/
 255. Oceana Schottische                           /W. H. Stevens/
 279. Over the Waves                               /Rosas/
 409. Our Flirtation March                         /J. P. Sousa/
 412. Semper Fidelis March                         /J. P. Sousa/
 398. Washington Post March                        /J. P. Sousa/


              BANJO AND PIANO.

 429. Belle of Chicago March                       /J. P. Sousa/
 406. Cadet Two Step (arranged)                    /Alard/
 430. Corcoran Cadets March                        /J. P. Sousa/
 428. High School Cadets March                     /J. P. Sousa/
 419. Liberty Belle March                          /J. P. Sousa/
 418. Manhattan Beach March                        /J. P. Sousa/
 433. March Past of the National Fencibles         /J. P. Sousa/
 432. March Past of the Rifle Regiment             /J. P. Sousa/
 431. Our Flirtation March                         /J. P. Sousa/
 434. Semper Fidelis March                         /J. P. Sousa/
 417. Washington Post March                        /J. P. Sousa/

       *       *       *       *       *


         THE VIOLIN TIMES,                   Monthly, 2d.,
                                                (by post 2-1/2d,)
     /Edited by E. POLONASKI/.                   /=Abroad, 3s.=/

 /=Subscription, 2s, 6d., per Year=/           Covers for binding
                                                   2s. each.
 VOLS. 1 TO 8, BOUND, PRICE 6/-EACH.            Index 2d. each.

/Illustrated Supplements have appeared Including the following/
(/2-1/2d. each./)

 PORTRAITS.

 VOL. 8.
 Prof. and Mrs. Holloway and Family
 Eugene Polonaski
 Hugo Kupferschmidt
 Dr. Joachim
 Anton Schumacher
 William Christ Basle
 M. Coward-Klee
 Dettmar Dressel
 The Joachim Quartet
 Kubelik
 C. M. Hawcroft

 VOL. 7.
 W. A. Mozart
 Miss Kate Lee
 R. Peckotsch
 Gordon Tanner
 Eugene Meier
 W. V. Fisher
 Paganini
 T. B. Parsons
 Joseph Guarnerius del Gesu Violin, 1733

 VOL. 6.
 Pierre Baillot
 C. A. de Beriot
 J. R. Bingley
 Ole Bull
 Arcangelo Corelli
 Ferdinand David
 Elderhorst Quartette
 H. Wilhelm Ernst
 Miss Muriel Handley
 Miska Hauser
 M. Paganini
 Louis Spohr
 A. Stradivarius
 H. Vieuxtemps
 G. Viotti

 VOL. 5.
 T. G. Briggs
 Cologne Gurzenich Quartette
 Wm. Henley
 Miss Leonora Jackson
 J. Koh-Alblas
 A. Oppenheim (violinist)
 A. Oppenheim (pianist)
 Mdlle. Jeanette Orloff
 Dr. H. Pudor
 C. L. Walger
 W. E. Whitehouse
 Miss Gladys May Hooley
 J. Harold Henry
 Adolphe Pollitzer
 Mdlle. Edith Smith
 John Dunn
 Heinrich Maria Hain
 Edina Bligh
 I. B. Poznanski
 Rene Ortmans
 A. Simonetti
 W. Ten Have
 Mdlle. Wietrowitz
 Miss Hildegard Werner
 Fred Furnace
 Miss Kathleen Thomas
 M. Césare Thomson
 F. Whiteley
 H. Lyell Tayler
 Stanley W. G. Barfoot
 G. de Angelis
 Marcello Rossi

 FACSIMILES AND PICTURES.

 Paganini on his Death-bed
 Letter of Ch. de Bériot
 Letter of Camillo Sivori
 Defeasance of a bond by Roger Wade Crowder
 Viola di Gamba by Carlo Bergonzi, 1713
 Facsimile Labels in Nos. 32, 34, 35, 37, 505, 58
 Lira da Gamba, by Linarolo, reproduction of Painting by Tintoretto
 David Techler's Viola
 Stradivari's Scroll
 Jacob Stainer's House

       *       *       *       *       *


 Books on Freemasonry                Published by W. REEVES,
                                     83, Charing Cross Road, W.C.


      12mo, red cloth, gilt, 323 pp., 3/6.

=Carlile (R.), Manual of Freemasonry=, containing the First Three
Degrees, The Royal Arch and Knights' Templar Druids, The Degrees of
Mark Man, Mark Master, Architect, Grand Architect., etc., etc.

       *       *       *       *       *

      12mo, blue cloth, gilt, 374 pp., 3/6.

=Fellows (J.), Mysteries of Freemasonry=; or, An Exposition of the
Religious Dogmas and Customs of the Ancient Egyptians; showing, from
the origin, nature and objects of the rites and ceremonies of remote
antiquity, their identity with the Order of Modern Masonry, with some
remarks on the Metamorphosis of Apuleius, /with numerous woodcuts/.

       *       *       *       *       *

     12mo, green cloth, gilt, 254 pp., 3/6.

=Ritual and Illustrations of Freemasonry=, /accompanied by very
numerous engravings/, and a Key to the Phi Beta Kappa.

       *       *       *       *       *

            8vo, sewed, 26 pp., 1/-

=Investigation into the Cause of the Hostility of the Church of Rome
to Freemasonry=, and an Inquiry into Freemasonry as it Was, and Is:
with Criticism as to how far the Order fulfils its Functions, by
Author of "Text Book of Freemasonry."

       *       *       *       *       *

          Post 8vo, sewed, 48 pp., 1/-

=Joachin and Boaz=; or, an Authentic Key to the Door of Freemasonry,
both Ancient and Modern.

       *       *       *       *       *

          Post 8vo, sewed, 50 pp., 1/-

=Three Distinct Knocks at the Door of the Most Ancient Freemasonry.=

       *       *       *       *       *

                8vo, sewed, 1/-

=The Origin of Freemasonry=, or the 1717 Theory Exploded by C. J.
Paton.

       *       *       *       *       *

        8vo, paper, 2/6 (post free 3/-)

=Weisse (John A.), The Obelisk of Freemasonry=, according to the
Discoveries of Belzoni and Commander Gorringe: also Egyptian Symbols
compared with those discovered in American Mounds.

       *       *       *       *       *

      Fifth thousand, 12mo, cloth 1/-/net/.

=Pocket Lexicon of Freemasonry=, by W. J. Morris 18^o P.D.D.G.M., St.
Lawrence, District and Past Inspector Gen. Royal and Select Masters.

       *       *       *       *       *

           12mo, cloth, 62 pp., 2/-

=Fox (T. L.), Freemasonry=; An Account of the Early History of
Freemasonry in England, with Illustrations of the Principles and
Precepts advocated by that Institution.

/The above/ POST FREE /on receipt of remittance for price named/.

       *       *       *       *       *

   12mo, blue cloth, red edges, 270 pp., 5/-

=Text Book of Freemasonry=; a Complete Handbook of Instruction to all
the Workings in the Various Mysteries and Ceremonies of CRAFT MASONRY,
containing the Entered Apprentice, Fellow-craft, and Master Mason's
degrees; the Ceremony of Installation of the W. Master and Officers of
the Lodge, together with the whole of the Three Lectures; also the
Ceremony of Exhaltation in the Supreme Order of the Holy Royal Arch, a
Selection of Masonic Songs, etc., /illustrated with four engravings of
the/ =TRACING BOARDS=, by "A Member of the Craft," new and revised
edition.

=Ditto, Ditto=, on thin paper, bound in leather pocket-book style, 5s.

=The Three Tracing Boards=, in 12mo, cloth line, 1s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

Post 8vo, cloth, 10/-(or crimson calf limp, gilt edges, 15/-net.)

=Text Book of Advanced Freemasonry=, containing for the
self-Instruction of Candidates, the COMPLETE RITUALS of the HIGHER
DEGREES, viz., Royal Ark Mariners, Mark Master, Royal Arch, Red Cross
of Rome and Constantinople, Knights' Templar and Rose Croix de
Heredom; also Monitorial Instructions on the 30th to the 33rd and last
degree of Freemasonry, to which are added Historical Introductions and
Explanatory remarks by the Author of the "Text Book."

       *       *       *       *       *


            MASONIC SONGS AND POEMS

            BY BARDS CHIEFLY OF THE
            19th AND 20th CENTURIES

                  COMPILED BY
                 A. C. STEPHEN.

       *       *       *       *       *

Third Edition, 8vo. boards, cloth back, =6/-net= (by post 6/4.)


               THE INTERNATIONAL
           DIRECTORY OF PATENT AGENTS.

    NEW AND ENLARGED EDITION (/the third/),

Contains over =4000= Patent Agents, practising in all parts of the
world. Arranged Alphabetically, and, also Geographically.


London: W. Reeves, 83, Charing Cross Road, W.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Set of 15 Numbers 2/6 post free. Or 2d. each (Post free 2-1/2)


              PARISH CHURCH MUSIC.

A Collection of Original, Practical, Modern Compositions--Tunes,
Canticles, Chants, etc., for use in "Choirs and Places where they
Sing.":--

No. 1.--Ten Tunes to the Hymn, "=ABIDE WITH ME=," including Three
Prize Tunes.

No. 2.--Ferial Confession, "=STORY OF THE CROSS=," Choir Prayers with
Antiphon, by G. E. Lake.

No. 3.--Five Tunes to the Hymn, "=ROCK OF AGES=," including Three
Prize Tunes.

No. 4.--Six Quadruple Chants for the "=TE DEUM=," including the Three
Prize Tunes.

No. 5.--Ten Tunes to the Hymn, "=SUN OF MY SOUL=," including Three
Prize Tunes.

No. 6.--Ten Tunes to "=JERUSALEM THE GOLDEN=," including Three Prize
Tunes.

No. 7.--Six Tunes to the Hymn "=NEARER MY GOD TO THEE=," including the
Three Prize Tunes.

No. 8.--Eleven Tunes to the Hymn, "=HARK, HARK, MY SOUL=," including
Three Prize Tunes.

No. 9.--Six Tunes to the Hymn "=LEAD KINDLY LIGHT=," including the
Three Prize Tunes.

No. 10.--Four Tunes to the Hymn, "=JESUS, LOVER OF MY SOUL=,"
including the Three Prize Tunes.

No. 11.--Five Tunes to the Hymn, "=LO! HE COMES WITH CLOUDS
DESCENDING=," including the Three Prize Tunes.

No. 12.--Five Tunes to the Hymn, "=I HEARD THE VOICE OF JESUS SAY=,"
including the Three Prize Tunes.

No. 13.--Six Tunes to the Hymn, "=FOR THEE, O DEAR, DEAR COUNTRY=,"
including the Three Prize Tunes.

No. 14.--Four Tunes to the Hymn, "=O LOVE WHO FORMEDST ME TO WEAR=."

No. 15.--Six Tunes to the Hymn, "=THE KING OF LOVE=," including Three
Prize Tunes.

       *       *       *       *       *

            /Price _One Shilling_./  (/Cloth 1/6/)

      /Notes/                 /on/         _CONDUCTORS_
                              AND          _CONDUCTING._
 /New and Enlarged
      Edition/

       BY T. R. CROGER, F.R.G.S., F.Z.S.,

/With three Full-page Illustrations of the various "Beats," and Plan
of an Orchestra/.

 "A mine of good things."--/Musical Opinion./

 "One of the best guides to conducting."--/P. and M. T. Review./

       *       *       *       *       *

          Weekly, with Supplement, 2d.


                      THE
              "MUSICAL STANDARD,"

       A NEWSPAPER FOR MUSICIANS, ...
               PROFESSIONAL AND AMATEUR.

Gives Supplements of Illustrations of British and Foreign Organs,
Portraits of Eminent Musicians, Organ Music, Violin Music, Anthems,
Part Songs, Songs, Piano Pieces,

SUBSCRIPTION, one year, 10s. 10d., six months, 5s. 5d. Abroad, one
year, 13s., six months, 6s. 6d.

/Illustrated Series/, Vols. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 & onward,
bound in brown cloth, 5s. each.

Handsome Covers for Binding, 1s. 6d. each, (by post 1s. 9d).

    Publishing and Advertising Offices:
       83, CHARING CROSS ROAD, LONDON, W.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

1902-3 Edition. Paper, 2s. net: or Cloth, 3s. 6d. net.


               MUSICAL DIRECTORY

        /FOR GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND/.

THE TRADES, PROFESSORS AND OTHERS CONNECTED WITH MUSIC, CHORAL
SOCIETIES, STAFF OF CATHEDRALS, COLLEGES AND ABBEY CHURCHES, ETC.


W. REEVES, 83, CHARING CROSS RD., LONDON, W.C.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Catalogue of Works Literary Art and
Music, by W. Reeves

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CATALOGUE OF WORKS LITERARY ***

***** This file should be named 51902-8.txt or 51902-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/1/9/0/51902/

Produced by Judith Wirawan, deaurider and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
